Syllabus requirements (from https://www.umkc.edu/provost/downloads/UMKC Syllabus Components_Effective Fall 2016.pdf)

*Academic units may have additional course syllabus requirements – e.g., specific professional accreditation requirements. It is the obligation of each instructor to consult with the respective department/division/program chair/ director and/or dean’s office designee regarding additional required syllabus components and/or wording.

Information required for course syllabi and preferred order:

Please include the UMKC Syllabus Components to provide students with detailed information and helpful links ‐ instructors may format the syllabus as it best suits the course.

Instructor Information

o Department

o Name

o Contact Information to include university email address, university telephone number & preferred contact method

o Class Meeting Time/Place

o Semester Offered

o Instructor Office Hours and Office Location (with information about the process for establishing appointments with the instructor outside the established office hours) Undergraduate

Instructors: Consider setting up UMKC Connect Office hours that allow students to schedule appointments with you. Contact umkcucollege@umkc.edu for assistance.

Catalog Information (provide information for each component as it is listed in the current UMKC Catalog: UMKC Catalog www.umkc.edu/catalog Pathway Login http://pathway.umkc.edu

o Subject/Curricular Designation

o Catalog Number

o Course Title

o Course Description from the UMKC Catalog

o Credit Hours (if variable, explain rationale for min/max amount of work related)

o Prerequisites/Co‐Requisites

o Restrictions/Exclusions (i.e., nursing students only)

o Course Attributes (Based on identification found in Pathway, i.e., online certified; general education; undergraduate research)

o Course Format (Based on identification found in Pathways: Lecture; Lab; Recitation/Seminar/Discussion; Independent Study; Field Study; Studio; Internship; Practicum; Clinical)

o Course Instructional Mode (Based on identification found in Pathway: P (classroom based); B (blended class instruction); OS (on‐line synchronous); OA (on‐line asynchronous); VI (video); seeDefinitions at http://info.umkc.edu/online/online‐definition/)

Course Information

o Required and Recommended Materials (Note where materials may be accessed or purchased.)

o Evaluation and Grading Criteria (Grading scale including how points are earned and how letter grades are assigned.)

o Schedule of Course Topics Covered, Assignments, Requirements, and Assignment Deadlines (Include all class meeting times and final exam in schedule. Instructor Note: http://www.umkc.edu/provost/policy‐library/documents/FinalExamPolicy.pdf ; Course assignments may be linked to course student learning outcomes.)

o Student Learning Outcomes (Resources to design measurable course‐level SLOs are available athttp://www.umkc.edu/assessment/ and by contacting Dr. Ruth Cain, UMKC Director for Assessment at cainre@umkc.edu or 816‐235‐6084.)

o Course Expectations, Course Policies, Requirements and Standards for Student Coursework and Student Behavior (Include course attendance policy, exam/make‐up exam policy, Blackboard useexpectations, etc. Include specific statements about expected student behavior supportive of the student learning environment. Include specific statements about expected student behavior in relationship to student coursework – i.e., group projects, collaboration on outside of class assignments, etc.)

(All Syllabi must include the following “Resources & Policy Statements” segment with policy language
and references / links. In addition, instructors are encouraged to discuss aspects of these policies with
students in their courses.)

UMKC Resources & Policy Statements

Academic Calendar: Students are encouraged to review important add, drop or withdraw dates: http://www.umkc.edu/registrar/acal.asp

Academic Honesty: The Board of Curators of the University of Missouri recognizes that academic honesty is essential for the intellectual life of the University. Faculty members have a special obligation to expect high standards of academic honesty in all student work. Students have a special obligation to adhere to such standards. Academic dishonesty, including cheating, plagiarism or sabotage, is adjudicated through the University of Missouri Student Conduct Code and Rules of Procedures in Student Conduct Matters.

Academic Inquiry, Course Discussion and Privacy: (Choose one of the following to include in the
syllabus‐‐ Faculty allowing recording or Faculty not allowing recording.)

Faculty allowing recording ‐ University of Missouri System Executive Order No. 38 lays out
principles regarding the sanctity of classroom discussions at the university. The policy is
described fully in Section 200.015 of the Collected Rules and Regulations. In this class, students
may make audio or video recordings of course activity unless specifically prohibited by the
faculty member. However, the redistribution of any audio or video recordings of statements or
comments from the course to individuals who are not students in the course is prohibited
without the express permission of the faculty member and of any students who are recorded,
including those recordings prepared by an instructor. Students found to have violated this policy
are subject to discipline in accordance with provisions of Section 200.020 of the Collected Rules
and Regulations of the University of Missouri pertaining to student conduct matters.
(OR)

Faculty not allowing recording ‐ University of Missouri System Executive Order No. 38 lays out
principles regarding the sanctity of classroom discussions at the university. The policy is
described fully in Section 200.015 of the Collected Rules and Regulations. In this class, students
may not make any audio or video recordings of course activity (including those recordings
prepared by an instructor), except students permitted to record as an accommodation under
Section 240.040 of the Collected Rules. All other students who record and/or distribute audio or
video recordings of class activity are subject to discipline in accordance with provisions of
Section 200.020 of the Collected Rules and Regulations of the University of Missouri pertaining
to student conduct matters.

Those students who have written permission from the course instructor to record are not
permitted to redistribute any audio or video recordings of statements or comments from the
course to individuals who are not students in the course without the express permission of the
faculty member and of any students who are recorded, including those recordings prepared by
an instructor. Students found to have violated this policy are subject to discipline in accordance
with provisions of Section 200.020 of the Collected Rules and Regulations of the University of
Missouri pertaining to student conduct matters.

Attendance Policy: Students are expected to attend and participate in classes. In order to comply with
federal regulations associated with eligibility rules for federal financial aid, students not attending a
course during the first three weeks of the term will be administratively dropped from the specific
course. Advance notice of attendance policies of academic units and individual instructors should be
given, and such notice should be in writing. Students should notify instructors of excused absences in
advance, where possible. Students who have an excused absence are expected to make arrangements
with instructors for alternative or make‐up work. Such arrangements should be made in advance of the
absence, where possible. Instructors should accommodate excused absences to the extent that an
accommodation can be made that does not unreasonably interfere with the learning objectives of the
course or unduly burden the instructor. Attendance policies shall be applied in a non‐discriminatory
manner. Enrollment as a student is required to attend any class unless otherwise pre‐approved by the
instructor. Instructors are responsible for verifying the class roster in Pathway throughout the term.
https://catalog.umkc.edu/undergraduate‐academic‐regulations‐information/attendance‐policy/

Campus Safety: Inclement weather, mass notification, and emergency response guide:
http://www.umkc.edu/umkcalert/

Counseling and Health Services Available at UMKC: UMKC students may experience many challenges in
their lives while attending college – stress, depression, suicidality, trauma, relationship issues, health
concerns, etc. As your professor I care about your success and well‐being, and want to make you aware
of some helpful resources on campus. The UMKC Counseling Center (www.umkc.edu/counselingcenter),
located at 4825 Troost in Room 206, offers a wide range of supportive services to students.
Appointments can be made by calling 816.235.1635. UMKC Student Health and Wellness
(http://info.umkc.edu/studenthealth/), located at 4825 Troost in Room 115, offers a full range of health
care and promotion services. Appointments can be scheduled online or by calling 816.235.6133. The
MindBody Connection (www.umkc.edu/mindbody) is located in the Atterbury Student Success Center in
Room 112 and offers a variety of stress‐reduction services.

Disability Support Services: To obtain disability related accommodations and/or auxiliary aids, students
with disabilities must contact the Office of Services for Students with Disabilities (OSSD) as soon as
possible. To contact OSSD, call (816) 235‐5696. Once verified, OSSD will notify the course instructor and
outline the accommodation and/or auxiliary aids to be provided. For more information go to:
http://www.umkc.edu/disability/

English Proficiency Statement: Students who encounter difficulty in their courses because of the English
proficiency of their instructors should speak directly with their instructors. If additional assistance is
needed, students may contact the UMKC Help Line at 816‐235‐2222 for assistance.

Grade Appeal Policy: Students are responsible for meeting the standards of academic performance
established for each course in which they are enrolled. The establishment of the criteria for grades and
the evaluation of student academic performance are the responsibilities of the instructor.

The University grade appeal procedure is available only for the review of allegedly capricious grading
and not for review of the instructor's evaluation of the student's academic performance. Capricious
grading, as that term is used here, comprises any of the following:

• The assignment of a grade to a particular student on some basis other than the performance in the
course;

• The assignment of a grade to a particular student according to more exacting or demanding standards
than were applied to other students in the course; (Note: Additional or different grading criteria may be
applied to graduate students enrolled for graduate credit in 300‐ and 400‐level courses.)

• The assignment of a grade by a substantial departure from the instructor's previously announced
standards.

Discrimination Grievance Procedures for Students: Discrimination Grievance Procedures for Students
can be found here:
http://www.umsystem.edu/ums/rules/collected_rules/grievance/ch390/grievance_390.010

Statement of Human Rights: The Board of Curators and UMKC are committed to the policy of equal
opportunity, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability and
status as a Vietnam era veteran. Commitment to the policy is mentored by the Office of Diversity and
Inclusion, but it is the responsibility of the entire university community to provide equal opportunity
through relevant practices, initiatives and programs.
Title IX: Under the University of Missouri’s Title IX policy, discrimination, violence and harassment based
on sex, gender, and gender identity are subject to the same kinds of accountability and support applied
to offenses based on other protected characteristics such as race, color, ethnic or national origin, sexual
orientation, religion, age, ancestry, disability, military status, and veteran status. If you or someone you
know has been harassed or assaulted, you can find the appropriate resources by visiting UMKC’s Title IX
Office webpage (http://info.umkc.edu/title9/) or contacting UMKC’s Title IX Coordinator, Mikah K.
Thompson (816.235.6910 or thompsonmikah@umkc.edu). Additionally, you can file a complaint using
UMKC’s online discrimination complaint form, which is located at
http://info.umkc.edu/title9/reporting/report‐online/.
While most UMKC employees are required to report any known or suspected violation of Title IX, students
may seek confidential guidance from the following campus locations:

UMKC Counseling Service
Volker Campus
4825 Troost Ave, Suite 206
Kansas City, MO 64110
Phone – (816) 235‐1635

UMKC Counseling Service
Health Sciences Campus
Health Sciences Building 1418
2464 Charlotte
Kansas City, MO 64108
Phone – (816) 235‐1635
(open Tuesdays, 1‐5pm)

Student Health and Wellness
4825 Troost Ave., Suite 115
Kansas City, MO 64110
Phone ‐ (816) 235‐6133

UMKC Connect: Important information is available to undergraduate students in UMKC Connect accessed
through Blackboard. Throughout the term, students may receive emails regarding course grades or
academic performance. Students are expected to address information posted in a timely fashion. This
information may be shared with the student’s Success Network made up his or her academic advisor(s)
and other campus resources so that UMKC may fully support the student’s success.